README.md, before:

# ssh-private-key-buildpack

A Heroku buildpack for setting the ssh private key as part of the application build. It's meant to be used as part of a setup [using multiple buildpacks](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/using-multiple-buildpacks-for-an-app), so other buildpacks can authenticate with hosts using ssh keys, for instance to install dependencies from private git repositories.

# Example usage

## Configure Multiple Buildpacks
### _Option 1:_ Heroku CLI or Dashboard
Add the buildpack to your Heroku app either using the CLI or the Heroku dashboard. The `ssh-private-key-buildpack` needs to run before any buildpack trying to get ssh access. In the following example, it runs before the `heroku/go` buildpack.

    $ heroku buildpacks:set --index 1 https://github.com/debitoor/ssh-private-key-buildpack.git
    $ heroku buildpacks:add heroku/go

### _Option 2:_ Use `heroku-buildpack-multi`
Instead of setting the buildpacks directly with Heroku they can also be configured using a `.buildpacks` in combination with [`heroku-buildpack-multi`]( https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-multi).

    $ heroku buildpacks:set https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-multi.git  
The same example given for the CLI use would have the following `.buildpacks` file.

    $ cat .buildpacks
    https://github.com/debitoor/ssh-private-key-buildpack.git
    https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-go

## Configure SSH Key

Set the private key environment variable `SSH_KEY` of your Heroku app (note that the key needs to be base64 encoded).

    $ heroku config:set SSH_KEY=$(cat path/to/your/keys/id_rsa | base64)

By default the buildback adds Github to `known_hosts`. However you can configure your app to allow custom hosts, too. All that's needed is the set `SSH_HOSTS` for you app to a comma-separated list of hosts, e.g. `git@github.com,example.com`

    $ heroku config:set SSH_HOSTS="git@github.com,example.com"

Commit message:

Expand Readme on multiple SSH key setup and explain how it works.

README.md, after:

# ssh-private-key-buildpack

A Heroku buildpack for setting the ssh private key as part of the application build. It's meant to be used as part of a setup [using multiple buildpacks](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/using-multiple-buildpacks-for-an-app), so other buildpacks can authenticate with hosts using ssh keys, for instance to install dependencies from private git repositories.

# Example usage

## Configure Multiple Buildpacks

### _Option 1:_ Heroku CLI or Dashboard

Add the buildpack to your Heroku app either using the CLI or the Heroku dashboard. The `ssh-private-key-buildpack` needs to run before any buildpack trying to get ssh access. In the following example, it runs before the `heroku/go` buildpack.

    $ heroku buildpacks:set --index 1 https://github.com/debitoor/ssh-private-key-buildpack.git
    $ heroku buildpacks:add heroku/go

### _Option 2:_ Use `heroku-buildpack-multi`

Instead of setting the buildpacks directly with Heroku they can also be configured using a `.buildpacks` in combination with [`heroku-buildpack-multi`](https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-multi).

    $ heroku buildpacks:set https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-multi.git

The same example given for the CLI use would have the following `.buildpacks` file.

    $ cat .buildpacks
    https://github.com/debitoor/ssh-private-key-buildpack.git
    https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-go

## Configure SSH Key

Set the private key environment variable `SSH_KEY` of your Heroku app (note that the key needs to be base64 encoded).

    $ heroku config:set SSH_KEY=$(cat path/to/your/keys/id_rsa | base64)

By default the buildback adds Github to `known_hosts`. However you can configure your app to allow custom hosts, too. All that's needed is the set `SSH_HOSTS` for you app to a comma-separated list of hosts, e.g. `git@github.com,example.com`

    $ heroku config:set SSH_HOSTS="git@github.com,example.com"

### Configure more than one SSH Key

In case you need to access more than one private repository you should configure your SSH keys as follows:

1. Specify a comma-separated list of private repositories in `PRIVATE_REPOSITORIES`. E.g.:

   ```
   $ heroku config:set PRIVATE_REPOSITORIES="traveling_salesman_in_linear_time_algo,bin_packing_in_constant_time_algo"
   ```

2. For every private repository specified thus, you need to also configure an environment variable with the repo name suffixed by `_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY`. E.g.:

   ```
   $ heroku config:set TRAVELING_SALESMAN_IN_LINEAR_TIME_ALGO_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY=$(cat path/to/your/keys/id_rsa | base64)
   $ heroku config:set BIN_PACKING_IN_CONSTANT_TIME_ALGO_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY=$(cat path/to/your/keys/id_rsa | base64)
   ```

This works only with private repositories hosted on github.com. You can change the default github organization (`STUDITEMPS`) via the environment variable `GITHUB_ORGANIZATION`.

#### How does the setup with multiple SSH keys work?

The SSH agent associates one key with one host and since we cannot use the same key for different repositories on github, we need to map each repository to a separate host. We can do this via git url rewriting (`git config url."<REWRITTEN-URL>".insteadOf "<ORIGINAL-URL>"`).
This then allows us to map one SSH key to one repository. However, now we are trying to fetch the repositories from an invalid host (unless it is forwarding to github.com). So we need to rewrite the URL again, this time in the SSH agent to the correct host (github.com).
